1. What is statically typed and Dynamically typed Programming Language?
Ans: Statically typed: if the memory of the variable is given during the compilation time itself then such types of
programming languages are called as “Statically typed”.
Eg: C,C++,Java
Dynamically typed: If the memory of the variable is given during the execution time itself then such types of
programming languages are called as “dynamically typed”.
Eg: Python,PHP,JavaScript


2. What is the variable in Java?
Ans: A variable is the title of a reserved region allocated in memory. In other words, it may be referred to as the
name of a memory location.
It is a container that holds the value while the Java Program is executed.
Each variable should be given a unique name to indicate the storage area.
A variable is assigned with a data type(we will learn about it after this topic).
Syntax for Declaring a Variable:
Type variable_name [= value];
The variable_name is the name of a variable. We can initialise the variable by specifying an equal sign and a
value (initialization i.e. assigning an initial value, is optional). However, the compiler never assigns a default
value to an uninitialized local variable in Java.


3. How To Assign a Value To Variable?
Ans: We use assign operator (=) to assign a value to a variable. For Example,
number = 10;
flag = true;
name = "CodePumpkin";
We can assign a value to a variable any number of times in Java, but when we assign a new value to a
variable, the old value will be overwritten.
For example, in the first code snippet, we have first assigned a value 10 to the number and then modified its
value by performing the number+20 operation and assigning it back to the variable number by .


4. What are Primitive Data types in Java?
Ans: byte, short, int, long, float, double, char, String, boolean.


5. What are the Identifiers in Java?
Ans: Identifiers in Java are symbolic names used for identification. They can be a class name, variable name,
method name, package name, constant name, and more. However, In Java , There are some reserved words
that can not be used as an identifier.


5. List the Operators in Java?
Ans: Operators in JavaF
D Arithmetic Operator_
D Relational Operator_
D Logical Operator_
D Assignment Operator_
D Unary Operator_
D Bitwise Operators

6. Explain about Increment and Decrement operators and give an examples
Ans: Increment and Decrement Operators in Java are used to increase or decrease the value by 1. For example,
Incremental operator ++ is useful to increase the existing variable value by 1 (i = i + 1). Moreover, the decrement
operator – – is useful to decrease or subtract the current value by 1 (i = i – 1). The syntax of both increment and
decrement operators in Java Programming to prefix or postfix is
Increment Operator : ++x or x++
Decrement Operator: --x or x-